Already Implemented but keep for history:

Slot status effect archetypes (some slot status effects are invisible to the player until triggered, only one active at a time, some cant be overriden)
** Scorched Earth: creature on this slot cant trigger passive abilities
** Landmine: onEnter apply Damage to the first creature entering it.
** onLeave: Creature cant leave slot for x turns (this triggers when trying to leave)
** onEnter: creature gets one of the minor creature status effects (predetermined or random, long lasting or just once) Make all variants of this.
** TurnEnd: creature gets damage over time when staying in a slot. (like a hazardous environment)
** onDeployCreature(spawn): return creature to owners hand 
** Force Field: Negate all damage done to the creature or slot for x Turns.
** OnEnter: cleanse or deny next status effect (blessed)
** Creature Damage output increased by 1 while active 
** Creature Damage received reduced by 1 while active
** Develop some more options



Not Implemented yet:


Abilities:
** Strong Leadership: Speeds deployment time from friendly creatures but deals damage to nearby creatures.
** Hangry: If any attack drop by any mean is applied to this creature ignore it and double its attack instead. Only once, doesnt reset on ressurect. Ability disabled if attack is no longer dropped.
** Heretic: +1 attack when damage received, -1 attack when healed 
** Swap ability with enemy creature. Always single target.
** Cant be status affected, neither raise stats
** OnDeployed: Remove all status effects from friendly creatures
** Feathered: Dont trigger on enter slot status effects
** Defuser: Disable all traps and remove status effects on enter.
** Minesweeper: Can't be targeted by homing attacks. Homing attacks damage is negated.
** Zealot: Adjacent friendly creatures are damaged for 1 health every turn. Damages player owning it for 2 health every turn. 
** Pusher: When moving towards a slot with a friendly creature can push them and occupy the slot (if the next slot is available) Triggers slot effects.


Status Effects:
Audited (X turns): This creature cannot have its base stats (Attack, Health, Speed as printed on the card) increased by friendly effects. If a friendly effect attempts to increase one of its base stats, its controller must discard 1 random card from their hand instead. If they cannot discard, this creature takes 2 damage. Lasts X turns.



Update document to include:
- Karma accounts for positive or negative roundings

- Spell that gives a creature to the enemy (stragegizes with adding a plethora of bad status effects, poisoned gift)

- Multi hit attacks

- Ability to prevent queue triggered reactions (queue traps)

- Creatures that trigger effects on deploy




- Ability: Discard card to draw a new one
- Cards that come back at hand if condition is met
- Clank: When 2 creatures attack eachother simultaneously and the damage difference is 3 or less both attacks are discarded.
- Intelligence-Link: When creature attacks player draw +1 card next turn
- Creature OnSummon counter: When it comes into the game removes all actions that meet a condition.


Cards:
- Spell that removes all cards left on the deck. You will be using the discard shuffled back into the deck after this for drawing. This is intended to reduce the number of cards on purpose to keep the best ones and cycle through only that ones.



Gameplay:

Creatures evolve over time in the board, the deployment time tells how much turns do you need to go to the next step
On every evolution the creature unlocks more abilities
this abilities can have side effects like, get status effect X or gain +5/+5/+0 

Example would be Snail; 0/1/1; Deployment time 2 (2 turns for each step); Step 1: Creature gains Spikes (Return x damage to attacker); Step 2: creature cleanses status effects; creature gains status effect Doomed.

Inspired by the card urzas saga (MTG)


Continuous effects: Use layering (MTG) for actions priority determination
1 Copy effects
2 Control changing effects
3 Type changing effects
4 Color changing effects (find out what is the equivalent)
5 Ability granting/removing effects
6 Power/Speed/Toughness changing effects
	A Set P/S/T to a specific value
	B Modify P/S/T using variables/conditions
	C Switch P/S/T effects
	

Arquetipo para criatura:
Una criatura con un temporizador para detonar una accion negativa para su controlador
El temporizador es muted, la criatura empieza con 3 stacks de muted
Cuando se le termina activa su habilidad que es negativa para el usuario controlando la criatura



Rename Digital Society -> DigiSoc

Magic bounce ability

Contrary Pokemon ability

Some status effects are healed on move, or make the return to hand more prominent.

Reduce the number of weird status effects

Keep Doomed, Heavy, 

Add/Create Burning, Anxious

Rework Bored

Add status effect that denies sacrificing a creature (empowered)


The main strategy has to be something like create a creature powerhouse by sacrificing and using other creatures to heal/raise stats from the powerhouse. 

The enemy has to do the same while sabotaging your plans, by targeting that creatures you want to sacrifice and kill them first, maybe adding a status effect to your powerhouse creature.

Make the game have limited resources making it impossible to create 2 powerhouses at the same time making the player decide what he wants to do next. 

The sacrifice power giving potential can be depending on the sacrificed creature stats.

Add a sacrifice value stat or abilities that add up to the sacrificial value for a cheaper price.

Cards that can only be played after certain type of card




Destruction is mostly tempo negative. You use resources to deny something.
The more reactive the higher the cost or the less it can target.
Destruction card archetypes:
Damaging/Health reducing: They can be used to damage a player, slot or creature.
Counter: Predefined triger to act upon certain conditions. It destroys what it was made to destroy.
Equalizer: Symetrical destruction that tries to even out the battlefield.
Burst: Destroy everything, useful against decks that have a high tempo at the beginning and put more than you on the table.





Draw card archetypes:
Raw: Just draw cards, no side effects, only cost. 
Impulse: Draw cards for 1 turn, those cards will be discarded automatically next turn.
Filtering: Draw X and discard the same cards. Improves the quality of the hand.
Trigger-based: When something predetermined happens draw X cards.
Burst: Kind of a mulligan, high cost high reward reshuffle of cards.









The endgame is trying to create a sacrifice, power-up, draw loop that overwhelms the enemy.

The reactivity comes from getting intelligence and building accordingly to kill their momentum.

There are two major archetypes, the ones that buildup on sacrifice included the enemy creatures.
The one that have a numbers/ability/logistic advantage but cant be sacrificed.

The cant be sacrificed (neither destroyed) creatures belong into the powerhouse creatures, they start being underwhelming but they are very scalable and/or have abilities that synergize with the scaling of their stats.

Some spells can make a creature non sacrifizable and ramp it up with some interesting skill.

Cost of spells is sometimes having/tapping/sacrificing X number of creatures deployed (not even tap them).

This means low deployment creatures are valuable to develop your game.

Killing or stealing those creatures are key to stop the enemy plans.

Intelligence will give you the hints to know what creatures to prioritize when developing and killing/sacrificing.

Creatures that on sacrifice return to players hand.
Creatures that can be ressurrected.
Creatures that have multiple lifes (like mimikyu disguise)


Creatures can attack, use active ability or move, only one


Creatures that have the swap active ability, that lets the creature move and change position with another.


Trap creature in front ability (cant move until this creature dies or moves somewhere else), some creatures can ignore this trapping


Taunt alike ability/status effect that negates stats changes for the targeted creature






Change the damage to be like a tug of war, when damaging the opponent you win a better position 
Use the mechanic like in supersmash bros where you have second chances before you die, you have to do a fatal blow to your opponent to cash in the victory



Rename slots to tiles


Use a layout of tiles that by default 2 are on the front and 3 on the back. Only the tiles in the front can be attacked.

The creatures on the back tiles can be brought up to the front with some spells or abilities.


Some characters have 3 tiles on the front and only 2 on the back.

Some characters do have 3 tiles on the front and 3 on the back.




Legendary Creatures: 

Information is power. The more information gathered while this creature is on play the stronger it becomes.
Memento mori: The more creatures sacrificed the more power this creature becomes.
No pain no gain: The more creatures received damage the more power this creature becomes.
Mens sana in corpore sano: The more buffs the creatures get the more power this creature becomes.
Placeholder: Location changes power up this creature.
Its a Trap: Trap activation powers up this creature.
Ninja: The more it moves position the stronger it becomes.
Logistical Nightmare: Other creatures movement power up this creature.
Lets be friends: Healing on any creature powers up this creature.
You are what you eat: You get a portion of the power of attacked creatures.
Less is more: Buffs and Debuffs affect this creature on the opposite, the less creatures you have in play the stronger it is.
Shattered Mind: It becomes more powerful each time a card is discarded from any player's hand or when draw is reduced.
The Unseen Hand: A master of sabotage and indirect control. It grows in power whenever an action in the queue is affected by Interference (Nullify, Reorder, or Redirect), mastering the art of disruption from the shadows.
Something: A living vector for every ailment imaginable. The more unique Status Effects are active on the battlefield (on any creature, friend or foe), the stronger this creature becomes.
Flesh Wall: Death is not an end, but a resource. This creature gains power each time a friendly creature is brought back from the Discard Pile via a Revive effect, building its strength upon recycled life.
Void Eater: A rift in reality that feeds on nonexistence. This creature gains immense, permanent power each time any card is Banished from the game, growing stronger as it erases its foes from the run entirely.
The Juggernaut: Its power is its impenetrable defense. This creature's Attack and other abilities scale based on the total amount of Armor currently on it or on all friendly creatures.